# Tiny-Social-Media-with-GRPC
This project is for CSCE-662 Texas A&amp;M. It is a social media with follow and unfollow feature + you can write on your wall. It runs in command prompt and uses GRPC for communication.

# Software Design
Designing this assignment could become really complicated if multiple users would work at the same time and even though it was not required I tried to make my program friendly to such a condition. Unlike the previous assignment designing a state machine unattached from memory work would be very complex and perhaps would need many man hours and redesigning to cover all the corner cases. So, in this assignment I tried to make the memory read and writes as short as possible so that if in future multi users at the same time become requirement, I would be able to efficiently handle most of the cases by mutex. One of the easiest ways to do that is by staying away from strings whenever possible. Strings are time consuming to compare and require a lot of storage. So, whenever possible the strings were converted to numbers for easier processing. All the internal workings of the program are handled by ID / Indices except for when the user wants to see the actual name. In that case the name is communicated. This is the minimum effort to make sure future work can be done easily.

In terms of gRPC’s usage in this assignment, the commands where handled by synchronous communication and the timeline mode was handled by asynchronous read and write form. The protobuf’s repeated feature was used to efficiently transmit the vector data from server to client. I tried to share messages as much as possible and reuse them when possible. One of the things that I initially did not think about was having an identifier for each user, but as soon as I started working I realized that identification of message sender is important for each service. I used a number to do this. This number was the ID of each user. The only problem with my approach is that if the user want to login from multiple devices my program may fail specially in timeline mode. I did notice gRPC’s own resources for solving this issue but I did not get a chance to utilize them.

The command implementation was very similar to last homework but this time I used 2 treads in side gRPC service for timeline. I was both listening and writing at the same time with the help of dedicates threads for writing and reading. Also knowing that there would be one message sent from each user, I let each user to have a flag for when there is a message that has to be transmitted to the their client. This way the server gRPC service for various clients could not when other clients are sending a message that has to be shared with their client. I kept a list of both following and followers in server for each client so that they would be able to set the flag for everyone following them rather than searching 
